39. Front: What are undirected graphical models also known as?
Back: Markov random fields or Markov networks.
Tags: PGMs, Undirected
40. Front: What is a key difference between directed and undirected graphical models?
Back: Undirected models don't require specifying edge orientations.
Tags: PGMs, Undirected
41. Front: What is the underlying structure in undirected graphical models?
Back: An undirected graph.
Tags: PGMs, Undirected
42. Front: In an undirected graph, what do you associate to each maximal clique?
Back: A potential function.
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, Joint Distribution
43. Front: What is a clique in an undirected graph?
Back: A set of nodes that are all neighbors of each other.
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, Joint Distribution
Front: What is a maximal clique in an undirected graph?
Back: A clique that cannot be made larger without losing the clique property.
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, Joint Distribution
Front: What do maximal cliques help define in an undirected graph?
Back: A potential function is associated with each maximal clique.
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, Joint Distribution
Front: What is a potential function?
Back: Any non-negative function that relates the variables in the clique.
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, Joint Distribution
Front: What is the Hammersley-Clifford theorem about?
Back: A theorem describing the structure of a distribution of a UPGM, by relating its joint distribution to the potential functions.
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, Joint Distribution
Front: According to the Hammersley-Clifford Theorem, how is the joint distribution structured in an UPGM?
Back: It is proportional to the product of potential functions over maximal cliques.
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, Joint Distribution
Front: What is a partition function?
Back: A normalization factor that makes the joint distribution sum to one
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, Joint Distribution
Front: What is a Gibbs distribution?
Back: An alternative way to represent a joint distribution based on the energy of the model.
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, Gibbs
Front: How is an energy based model defined in terms of the energy?
Back: The probability is related to the exponential of the negative energy
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, Gibbs
Front: What is a Fully Visible Markov Random Field?
Back: A Markov Random field where there are no latent variables.
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, MRF
Front: What is a MRF with latent variables?
Back: A Markov Random Field that has latent variables
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, MRF
Front: What is a Maximum Entropy Model?
Back: Models that are based on the principle of maximizing entropy while satisfying constraints.
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, Maximum Entropy
Front: What is a Gaussian MRF?
Back: A Markov Random Field that has a joint Gaussian distribution.
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, Gaussian
Front: How is conditional independence defined in undirected graphs?
Back: Simple graph separation.
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, CI
Front: What is the undirected global Markov property?
Back: A | B | C if and only if C separates A from B in the graph.
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, CI
Front: What does a node being separated by C from other nodes mean in UPGMs?
Back: If you remove C from the graph, there is no path connecting A to B.
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, CI
Front: What is a local Markov property in an UPGM?
Back: A node is conditionally independent of all other nodes except its Markov Blanket
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, Markov Properties
Front: What is the closure of a node?
Back: The Markov blanket of a node and the node itself.
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, Markov Properties
Front: What is a node's Markov blanket?
Back: The set of immediate neighbors of a node in an undirected graph.
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, Markov Properties
Front: What is the pairwise Markov property for UPGMs?
Back: Two nodes are conditionally independent given the rest if there's no edge between them.
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, Markov Properties
Front: Why is it useful to convert a DPGM to an UPGM?
Back: Because determining conditional independence relationships is easier by using simple graph separation.
Tags: PGMs, Conversion
Front: What do you need to do when converting chain or tent structures from a DPGM to a UPGM?
Back: Drop the orientation of the edges
Tags: PGMs, Conversion
Front: What do you need to do when converting collider structures from a DPGM to a UPGM?
Back: Add an edge between the co-parents and drop the orientation
Tags: PGMs, Conversion
Front: What is moralization in the context of PGMs?
Back: Converting a DPGM into an UPGM using the previous rules.
Tags: PGMs, Conversion, Moralization
Front: What is an ancestral graph?
Back: A graph that takes into consideration only a specific set of variables.
Tags: PGMs, Conversion, Moralization
Front: Why do you use MCMC for sampling from UPGMs?
Back: Because it can be quite slow to do otherwise.
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, Generation
Front: What is "inference" about in UPGMs?
Back: About computing the posterior distribution over nodes.
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, Inference
Front: Why is the learning process computationally expensive in UPGMs?
Back: Because the partition function is doubly intractable
Tags: PGMs, Undirected, Learning
Front: What are CRF?
Back: Conditional Random Fields.
Tags: PGMs, CRFs
Front: What is the core difference between Directed PGMs and Undirected PGMs?
Back: The use and absence of edge directions.
Tags: PGMs, Comparison
Front: What are Factor Graphs?
Back: Graphical models that explicitly represent factors in a factorization.
Tags: PGMs, Factor Graphs
Front: What are Bipartite factor graphs?
Back: Factor graphs that have nodes separated by types.
Tags: PGMs, Factor Graphs
Front: What are Forney Factor Graphs?
Back: Factor graphs where the factors are represented as nodes.
Tags: PGMs, Factor Graphs
Front: What is a Structural Causal Model?
Back: A triple that combines exogenous, endogenous variables and functions.
Tags: PGMs, Structural Causal Models
Front: What does the causal Markov assumption states?
Back: That all of the causal relevant factors are included in the model.
Tags: PGMs, Structural Causal Models
Front: What is a structural equation model?
Back: A structural causal model with linear functional relationships and Gaussian exogenous variables.
Tags: PGMs, Structural Equation Models
Front: What is "do operator" in Structural Causal Models?
Back: An action that sets a variable to a given value, which makes the graph causal.
Tags: PGMs, Interventions
Front: What are counterfactuals?
Back: Reasoning about what would have happened if things had been different.
Tags: PGMs, Counterfactuals
Front: How are observational and interventional studies defined in regards to counterfactuals?
Back: observational studies predict effects of causes, interventional studies predict causes of effects.
Tags: PGMs, Counterfactuals
